Hey everyone, and thanks for jumping
back into the Cryptoverse.
Today, we're going to talk about
Bitcoin, and we're going to be
discussing the bear market resistance
band. If you guys like the content, make
sure you subscribe to the channel, give
the video a thumbs up, and also check
out the sale on Into the Cryptoverse
Premium at intothecryptoverse.com.
We are going to be ending that sale very
soon, so make sure you guys check that
out. And uh let's go ahead and jump in.
So, Bitcoin is still well below the bear
market resistance band, and one of the
things we talked about previously is how
within bear markets Bitcoin will test
that band multiple times.
And some of those times it even goes
above it slightly. But, you can see that
to expect multiple rejections by the
bear market resistance band in bear
markets, right? I mean, that's why we
call it the bear market resistance band
is because in the bear market Bitcoin
really struggles to sustain itself to
sustain itself above it.
The only time, you know, the only bear
market where we really got above it for
any longer period of time was in 2014,
you know, where we got above it for a
little while.
But, it still was relatively
short-lived.
Like, it's not like it lasted that long
before we ended up continuing down.
So,
right now, what it seems like it's
happening
is you have the 200-week moving average
kind of trending up.
You have the bear market resistance band
trending down.
And Bitcoin is is like moving between
these two things and trying to figure
out which way it's going to break.
Now, clearly,
knowing the four-year cycle history of
Bitcoin, like you have to at least be
open-minded to the idea that it could
eventually break down like it did in,
you know, the end of 2022 and the end of
2018 and the end of 2014, right? Like, I
mean, like I'm not saying it has to. Uh
but, you know, it would it would be
foolish to pretend like it can't happen
because this is what we've seen happen
every midterm year. And, you know, we go
through these discussions and I make
these videos and someone I I I offend
someone who's convinced the low is in
like they have been multiple times
before. And,
you know, the the hard thing is like you
could believe the low is in for Bitcoin
and and maybe you're right, but you can
believe that and still kind of recognize
that, hey,
uh you still could see it go a little
lower as the year goes on. And and one
of the reasons I say that frankly is
just because if you look at things like
the the realized price for Bitcoin.
You know, like normally it goes below it
in bear markets. And we just simply
haven't gone below it yet. Right? And
and so, for me it makes me think that,
all right, well, we we likely will go
below it at some point later on this
year. I don't know exactly when, but it
seems like a a likely outcome. Now,
right now the bear market resistance
band to the upside is around 70 to
$74,000.
Okay? So, we're not really that far
removed from it. I know that feels like
a lot, but I mean, we had a week in June
where Bitcoin opened the the week at 73K
and closed the week at 63K. So, we
dropped $10,000 in a single week.
So,
let's see how this plays out. What
usually happens, and again, I I I I
can't say what will happen, but I'll say
what usually happens is that Bitcoin
will form a form a low in the early part
of the summer.
And then it'll get some type of counter
trend rally in the later part of the
summer. So, if you look at at Bitcoin
in, you know, in 2022, you can see that
it it found a low in June
and still stayed still stayed weak in
early July.
And then had this counter trend rally in
the like late July and August. And then
if you look at 2018, you can see that
Bitcoin found a low in like really late
June, still stayed weak in in about mid
early July, had that counter trend rally
in late July.
So, and then in 2014 it was a little bit
different cuz we didn't really top until
June. So, that's not the best
comparison. But, I mean, you can see
like what what usually happens is that
Bitcoin forms a low sometime kind of in
the early part of the summer. I I would
say June is is when it tends to form,
but a lot of times the weakness will
still persist into July. The last two
bear markets,
it the July weakness was still a higher
low, but obviously it's not guaranteed
to be that way. If you look at the 2014
move, you know, Bitcoin actually was
dropping in July, okay? After a pretty
big move at the very end of July. So, I
I'm not like
the path to get to to the market cycle
low is very hard to nail down, and this
is why I said at the very beginning of
the year, late last year,
I was like, "Look, guys, just pretend
like Bitcoin doesn't even exist for the
first half of this year. Ignore it.
Assume all countertrend rallies get
faded and that we eventually go lower,
and then start looking at it more
seriously in the second half of the
year." Well, we're only about a week a
little over a week away from the second
half of the year, and some of the
on-chain indicators have reset, but not
all of them.
What I would say is is, you know,
Bitcoin is
my guess is that it will eventually
break lower, but that doesn't mean you
can't have countertrend rallies before
that happens. Um
So,
you know, I don't really want to try to
nail down timing of exact things. Like,
I don't know exactly when things are
going to occur, but it is true that you
will often find sort of these lows that
occur somewhat cyclically cyclically,
like or like Q1, um
like tends to be around February, and
then June, and then Q4. And you can kind
of see it over here, too, like February,
June, and then Q4.
What's interesting is the altcoin market
in 2018 bled out while Bitcoin was going
sideways. So, you might actually see And
that happened in July. Like the altcoin
market got annihilated in July 2018, and
Bitcoin was basically doing okay.
So, you could And it's not impossible
for something like that to happen,
because if you look at at social
interest, it's completely dropping off.
Like if you look at the social risk that
we talked about the other day, like it's
been dropping fairly quickly for a long
time. Um
And so, when you think about like the
hundreds of thousands of altcoins that
exist, and you have fewer and fewer
retail buying those alts, then it
wouldn't be like the most outlandish
idea to say that, "Hey, maybe some of
these alts will won't have, you know,
the best time." Um
And so, that is that's a consideration
to make.
But, I mean, as far as Bitcoin goes, you
know, like it's still
it's basically, as I've said before,
like it's kind of between a rock and a
hard place, right? Like you're you're
getting rejected by the bear market
resistance band, and then you're also
trying to hold support at the 200-week
moving average, which it has previously
found some success at.
It's just the last cycle it it managed
to go through it. But, when it went
through it, it was it was in June, and
we're in June now.
And so, if if we can continue to hold
it, then it would it would raise the
odds of of maybe a brief counter-trend
rally into July. Kind of like we got
in 2022.
So,
just some things to consider. Those are
my thoughts. That's the update to the
bear market resistance band. If you guys
like the content, make sure you
subscribe. Give the video a thumbs up.
Again, check out the sale on Into The
Cryptoverse Premium at
intothecryptoverse.com.
I'll see you guys next time. Bye.